# Glossary of tech terms
This glossary consist of different tech terms

## 10 Scrum definitions

### Team 
A team or 'scrum team' is normally comprised of five to seven memebers.The team is normally a mix of different types of developers. Some examples of the different kinds of backgrounds involved are Architects, Testers, Programmers, software engineers, QA experts, analysts and UI designers. This is normally called cross-functional project teams. During the sprint the team will self organize themselves with help with the ScrumMaster who is the leader/guardian who ensures that the group are insulated from the product owner.

### Sprint Backlogs
A sprint backlog is a log that defines the tasks that need to be completed to find out the sprints goals.

### Impediments 
A Impediment is anything that stops any member of the team doing their job effectively and as well as they possibly could. At the daily scrum meeting every team member has the opportunity to present any Impediments they have come across. Another job that the Scrum Master is in charge of is solving these Impediments within the daily scrum meeting; if they cannot be resolved then and there, the Scrum Master will setup one or multiple sidebar meetings to make sure they get resolved.

### Burndown charts
These charts show any work that is remaining overtime. The time is the X axis and the work remaining is the Y axis; the work remaining should move up and down but eventually trend downward.

### Daily Scrum meeting
This is on average a 15 minute meeting each day (for every team member) which discusses and asks the team members three simple questions: 'What have you done since the last Scrum meeting i.e what did you do yesterday', 'What are you going to do before the next Scrum meeting i.e what are you doing to do today' and finally 'What prevents me from performing my work as efficently as possible?'. Additionally the Scrum Master will make sure members call sidebar meetings for a discussion on anything that goes too far outside of the meetings constraints.

### Velocity
Within Scrum, Velocity is how much product backlog effort a team can withstand within one sprint. A good way to estimate this is too look back on the Scrums previous sprints, assuming the teams sprint duration and composotion are kept constant. If they are not then you can also use a sprint-by-sprint analysis; using commitment based planning.

### Scrum Roles
Their are three essential/main roles for a Scrum. Firstly, we have the Product Owner who is focused on understanding market and business requirements, then making sure the engineering team prioritize work accordingly. Althought these are a few things the Product Owner will do; a good Product Owner will give the team a clear directionon which features to complete/deliver next, also decide when to ship the product with the predisposition towards more frequent delivery, as well as deciding when to ship the products they will build and manage the product backlog and put alot of time into this and lastly a good Product Owner will work closely with the business and the team to make sure everyone understands the work items in the product backlog they have created. The second essential role within a Scrum is the Scrum Master who are like the champion for Scrum within their team. They do alot of coaching with the Product Owner, the team and the business on the Scrum process and look for ways to improve and fine tune their practise. The Scrum Master is always in the know and will heavily understand the work the team is doing and will often help the team optimize its delivery flow. As the chief the Scrum Master will schedule any resources needed for sprint review, sprint planning, stand-up and the sprint retrospectives. Scrum Masters will also resolve impediments and distractions any of the team bring up, making sure the team are always able to perform to the best of their ability. What often happens is people mistake the Scrum Master with the Product Manager, when in reality the Project Manager does not have its own place within the Scrum methodology. The Scrum team controls its own destiny and self organizes their own team and each other. A good team will use a pull model and pull a certain amount of work off the backlog and fully commits and completes it, in that sprint; which can be very effective when it comes to ensuring optimum performance and maintaining quality of the team over the long term. Neither the Product Owners, Project Managers or Scrum Masters push any work to the team which in essence erodes both morale and quality. Lastly, is the role of Scrum teams. The most effective Scrum teams are co-located, tight-nit and usually consist of mostly 5-7 members but at the very most 11. Within a team there will be lots of different people will lots of different background that all play a huge part within the team. All members will approach every project with the we attitude and will help each other out to make sure the sprint is completed successfully. They will use their historical velocity to see how much work they can complete over the iteration using the velocity as a guide. Keeping the iterations length fixed makes it alot easier and will give the development team essential feedback on their estimation and how they will deliver the project/application which in essence makes their forcasts increasingly accurate over time.

### Sprint
A iteration of work where a some product functionalilty is implemented. An iteration should last around 30 days; this is longer than
other methods as they have to take into account that a functional increment of the product must be produced within each sprint. The sprint will start with a sprint-planning meeting, during the srpint there will be daily scrum meetings to look at progress and where to go forward; then the sprint will finish with a sprint review meeting, followed by a sprint retrospective meeting. During the sprint the team will not be given and will not take any additional requests, to make sure the team wont be interrupted and allows them to make realcommitments they can keep. comm
